README.md, before:

INCOMPLETE
==========

Adc, ports access and irqs are starting to become somehow stable.

The API is still not fixed and very little has been actually tested.

Please come back in a few days / weeks / months.


Examples:
=========

Examples may be found in my other github-repository:
(alibvr-examples)[https://www.github.com/close2/alibvr-examples]


Goal of this library:
=====================

This is library for the *atmega 328*.  This is the IC used in arduinos.

Every functionality of the atmega is exposed through a class with static
functions.  This library will never create objects!

Pins are assigned using `typedef`s instead of macros.

Using C++ templates it should be possible to have very few / none C-macros.
Also C++ templates are all "resolved" during compile time.  This means that
the produced code is very compact.


Usage:
======

## ports.h

Contains the typedef definitions for all pins.

Whenever you need to access a port use a provided `typedef`.

Those typedefs provide static access to PORT, PIN and DDR bits.  This is
done using a C++ cast operator and any overhead will be removed by the
compiler.

To set PORT, PIN or DDR of pin: `PIN_16::DDR = 1;`.  
To read from a pin: `uint8_t in = PIN_16::PIN;`

See [ports.h](src/ports.h) for all available typedefs.

The pin layout is compatible to arduino / arduino lite

```
                                     ┏━u━┓
            PCINT14            PC6  1┃   ┃28  PC5 (AI 5/*D19) PCINT13 ADC5 SCL
RXD         PCINT16      (D 0) PD0  2┃   ┃27  PC4 (AI 4/*D18) PCINT12 ADC4 SDA
TXD         PCINT17      (D 1) PD1  3┃   ┃26  PC3 (AI 3/*D17) PCINT11 ADC3
      INT0  PCINT18      (D 2) PD2  4┃   ┃25  PC2 (AI 2/*D16) PCINT10 ADC2
OC2B  INT1  PCINT19 PWM+ (D 3) PD3  5┃   ┃24  PC1 (AI 1/*D15) PCINT9  ADC1
XCK   T0    PCINT20      (D 4) PD4  6┃   ┃23  PC0 (AI 0/*D14) PCINT8  ADC0
                               VCC  7┃   ┃22  GND
                               GND  8┃   ┃21  AREF
XTAL1 TOSC1 PCINT6      *(D20) PB6  9┃   ┃20  AVCC
XTAL2 TOSC2 PCINT7      *(D21) PB7 10┃   ┃19  PB5 (D 13)      PCINT5  SCK
OC0B  T1    PCINT21 PWM+ (D 5) PD5 11┃   ┃18  PB4 (D 12)      PCINT4  MISO
OC0A  AIN0  PCINT22 PWM+ (D 6) PD6 12┃   ┃17  PB3 (D 11) PWM  PCINT3  MOSI OC2A
      AIN1  PCINT23      (D 7) PD7 13┃   ┃16  PB2 (D 10) PWM  PCINT2  SS   OC1B
CLKO  ICP1  PCINT0       (D 8) PB0 14┃   ┃15  PB1 (D 9)  PWM  PCINT1       OC1A
                                     ┗━━━┛
```

### Example:

Turn an Led on pin C2 on.

```C++
#include "ports.h"

typedef PIN_C2 Led;
/* other possible ways to typedef the Led:
typedef PIN_DIP_25 Led;
typedef PIN_16 Led;
typedef PIN_ADC2 Led;
*/

__attribute__ ((OS_main)) int main(void) {
  // put Led pin into output mode.
  Led::DDR = 1;

  Led::PORT = 1;
  for (;;);
  return 0;
}
```

Compiled with `-Os` this will produce the following code:

```c-objdump
build/led.o:     file format elf32-avr
Disassembly of section .text:

00000000 <__vectors>:
   0:	0c 94 34 00 	jmp	0x68	; 0x68 <__ctors_end>
removed 24 similar irq table entries, which all point to <__bad_interrupt>
  64:	0c 94 3e 00 	jmp	0x7c	; 0x7c <__bad_interrupt>

00000068 <__ctors_end>:
  68:	11 24       	eor	r1, r1
  6a:	1f be       	out	0x3f, r1	; 63
  6c:	cf ef       	ldi	r28, 0xFF	; 255
  6e:	d8 e0       	ldi	r29, 0x08	; 8
  70:	de bf       	out	0x3e, r29	; 62
  72:	cd bf       	out	0x3d, r28	; 61
  74:	0e 94 40 00 	call	0x80	; 0x80 <main>
  78:	0c 94 43 00 	jmp	0x86	; 0x86 <_exit>

0000007c <__bad_interrupt>:
  7c:	0c 94 00 00 	jmp	0	; 0x0 <__vectors>

00000080 <main>:
  80:	3a 9a       	sbi	0x07, 2	; 7
  82:	42 9a       	sbi	0x08, 2	; 8
  84:	ff cf       	rjmp	.-2      	; 0x84 <main+0x4>

00000086 <_exit>:
  86:	f8 94       	cli

00000088 <__stop_program>:
  88:	ff cf       	rjmp	.-2      	; 0x88 <__stop_program>

```

Commit message:

doc: move objdump to own section

README.md, after:

INCOMPLETE
==========

Adc, ports access and irqs are starting to become somehow stable.

The API is still not fixed and very little has been actually tested.

Please come back in a few days / weeks / months.


Examples:
=========

Examples may be found in my other github-repository:
(alibvr-examples)[https://www.github.com/close2/alibvr-examples]


Goal of this library:
=====================

This is library for the *atmega 328*.  This is the IC used in arduinos.

Every functionality of the atmega is exposed through a class with static
functions.  This library will never create objects!

Pins are assigned using `typedef`s instead of macros.

Using C++ templates it should be possible to have very few / none C-macros.
Also C++ templates are all "resolved" during compile time.  This means that
the produced code is very compact.


Usage:
======

## ports.h

Contains the typedef definitions for all pins.

Whenever you need to access a port use a provided `typedef`.

Those typedefs provide static access to PORT, PIN and DDR bits.  This is
done using a C++ cast operator and any overhead will be removed by the
compiler.

To set PORT, PIN or DDR of pin: `PIN_16::DDR = 1;`.  
To read from a pin: `uint8_t in = PIN_16::PIN;`

See [ports.h](src/ports.h) for all available typedefs.

The pin layout is compatible to arduino / arduino lite

```
                                     ┏━u━┓
            PCINT14            PC6  1┃   ┃28  PC5 (AI 5/*D19) PCINT13 ADC5 SCL
RXD         PCINT16      (D 0) PD0  2┃   ┃27  PC4 (AI 4/*D18) PCINT12 ADC4 SDA
TXD         PCINT17      (D 1) PD1  3┃   ┃26  PC3 (AI 3/*D17) PCINT11 ADC3
      INT0  PCINT18      (D 2) PD2  4┃   ┃25  PC2 (AI 2/*D16) PCINT10 ADC2
OC2B  INT1  PCINT19 PWM+ (D 3) PD3  5┃   ┃24  PC1 (AI 1/*D15) PCINT9  ADC1
XCK   T0    PCINT20      (D 4) PD4  6┃   ┃23  PC0 (AI 0/*D14) PCINT8  ADC0
                               VCC  7┃   ┃22  GND
                               GND  8┃   ┃21  AREF
XTAL1 TOSC1 PCINT6      *(D20) PB6  9┃   ┃20  AVCC
XTAL2 TOSC2 PCINT7      *(D21) PB7 10┃   ┃19  PB5 (D 13)      PCINT5  SCK
OC0B  T1    PCINT21 PWM+ (D 5) PD5 11┃   ┃18  PB4 (D 12)      PCINT4  MISO
OC0A  AIN0  PCINT22 PWM+ (D 6) PD6 12┃   ┃17  PB3 (D 11) PWM  PCINT3  MOSI OC2A
      AIN1  PCINT23      (D 7) PD7 13┃   ┃16  PB2 (D 10) PWM  PCINT2  SS   OC1B
CLKO  ICP1  PCINT0       (D 8) PB0 14┃   ┃15  PB1 (D 9)  PWM  PCINT1       OC1A
                                     ┗━━━┛
```

### Example:

Turn an Led on pin C2 on.

```C++
#include "ports.h"

typedef PIN_C2 Led;
/* other possible ways to typedef the Led:
typedef PIN_DIP_25 Led;
typedef PIN_16 Led;
typedef PIN_ADC2 Led;
*/

__attribute__ ((OS_main)) int main(void) {
  // put Led pin into output mode.
  Led::DDR = 1;

  Led::PORT = 1;
  for (;;);
  return 0;
}
```

I've added a compiled (`-Os`) objdump of this code at the bottom.

Note that the compiler was able to optimize the `Led::xxx` assignments
into simple `sbi` calls.


# Assembler output of a simple program.

This objdump demonstrates that the compiler is able to optimize
the C++ code into simple assembler calls.

The Led example above compiled with `-Os` will produce the following code:

```c-objdump
build/led.o:     file format elf32-avr
Disassembly of section .text:

00000000 <__vectors>:
   0:	0c 94 34 00 	jmp	0x68	; 0x68 <__ctors_end>
removed 24 similar irq table entries, which all point to <__bad_interrupt>
  64:	0c 94 3e 00 	jmp	0x7c	; 0x7c <__bad_interrupt>

00000068 <__ctors_end>:
  68:	11 24       	eor	r1, r1
  6a:	1f be       	out	0x3f, r1	; 63
  6c:	cf ef       	ldi	r28, 0xFF	; 255
  6e:	d8 e0       	ldi	r29, 0x08	; 8
  70:	de bf       	out	0x3e, r29	; 62
  72:	cd bf       	out	0x3d, r28	; 61
  74:	0e 94 40 00 	call	0x80	; 0x80 <main>
  78:	0c 94 43 00 	jmp	0x86	; 0x86 <_exit>

0000007c <__bad_interrupt>:
  7c:	0c 94 00 00 	jmp	0	; 0x0 <__vectors>

00000080 <main>:
  80:	3a 9a       	sbi	0x07, 2	; 7
  82:	42 9a       	sbi	0x08, 2	; 8
  84:	ff cf       	rjmp	.-2      	; 0x84 <main+0x4>

00000086 <_exit>:
  86:	f8 94       	cli

00000088 <__stop_program>:
  88:	ff cf       	rjmp	.-2      	; 0x88 <__stop_program>

```
